# ADASYN-N and Random Forest in Predicting of Obesity Status in Indonesia: A Case Study of Indonesian Basic Health Research 2013
## Abstract
Obesity is a pathological condition due to the accumulation of excessive fat  needed  for  body  functions.  The  risk  factors  for  obesity  are  related  to  their  obesity  status.  Various machine learning approaches are an alternative in predicting obesity status. However, in most cases, the available datasets are not sufficiently balanced in their data classes. The existence of data imbalances can cause the prediction results to be inaccurate. The purpose of this paper is to overcome  the  problem  of  data  class  imbalance  and  predict  obesity  status  using  the  2013 Indonesian  Basic  Health  Research  (RISKESDAS)  data.  Adaptive  Synthetic  Nominal (ADASYN-N) can be used to balance obesity status data. The balanced obesity status data is then predicted using one of the machine learning approaches, namely Random Forest. The results obtained show that through ADASYN-N with a balance level parameter of 1 (β = 100%) after synthetic data generation and Random Forest with a tree number of 200 and involving 7 variables as risk factors, giving the results of the classification of obesity status which is good. This can be seen from the AUC value of 84.41%
## Citation Request
Aqsha, M., Thamrin, S. A., & Lawi, A. 2021. "Combination of ADASYN-N and Random Forest in Predicting of  Obesity  Status  in  Indonesia:  A  Case  Study  of  Indonesian Basic Health Research 2013". Proceedings of the International Conference on Statistics, Mathematics, Teaching, and Research, 2123(1), 012039. https://doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/2123/1/012039
